---
layout: section
title: Curators
nav-title: Curators
permalink: /curators/
description:
order: 5
---

**Phong Bui** is an artist, writer, independent curator, publisher, and artistic director of the monthly journal the _Brooklyn Rail_ and the publishing press Rail Editions. He is a board member of the Third Rail of Minneapolis and St. Paul, the Miami Rail, the Louis Comfort Tiffany Foundation, the Sharpe-Walentas Studio Program, the International Association of Art Critics United States Section (AICA USA), Anthology Film Archives, Studio in a School, Second Shift Studio Space of Saint Paul, among others. In 2013 he founded Rail Curatorial Projects, which aims to curate group exhibits that respond to location, cultural moment, and economic conditions. In 2017, both the _River Rail_ (a free publication that focuses on environmental and climate change issues) and Occupy Rail (an ongoing endeavor to encourage and support motivated individuals to create their own _Rail_ publication in their local communities) were founded to facilitate and provide critical dialogues of how the arts, politics, and culture are integral parts of the common wealth of the greater public. He has recently co-founded the Graphyne Foundation, which aims to curate ongoing exhibitions and public programing in collaboration with Mana Contemporary in Jersey City, Chicago, and Miami, among other museums of contemporary art in the U.S. and abroad. His 2019 projects include: _The River Rail: On Puerto Rico_; and exhibitions _Jonas Mekas: A Retrospective_; _Occupy Colby Museum: Artists Need to Create on the Same Scale that Society Has the Capacity to Destroy (Year II)_, among others.

**Francesca Pietropaolo** is an Italian-born art historian, curator, and critic based in Venice. Her research interests focus on post-war European and American art, and on international contemporary art. She has held curatorial positions at the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis; The Museum of Modern Art, New York; the Fondazione La Biennale di Venezia, Venice; and the Fondation Louis Vuitton, Paris. During her time at MoMA, she worked on _Roth Time. A Dieter Roth Retrospective _(2004), _Plane Image. A Brice Marden Retrospective _(2006) and exhibitions drawing from the museum’s collection of works on paper. She was on the curatorial team of _Greater New York 2005_ at MoMA P.S. 1, New York. At the Fondation Luis Vuitton she was in charge of artist commissions, notably a site-specific installation by Ellsworth Kelly for the Auditorium as well as works by Cerith Wyn Evans, Adrian Villar Rojas, and Taryn Simon. Her projects as independent curator include exhibitions such as _North by New York: New Nordic Art _(American-Scandinavian Foundation, New York, 2011), and _Wrinkles in Time_ (IVAM, Valencia, 2009). In 2015 she co-curated the international film festival _Fireflies in the Night_ at the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Cultural Center (SNFCC), Athens as well as its second edition _Fireflies in the Night Take Wing_ (2016). In 2017 she co-curated _Only Connect!_, an international program of performances, at the SNFCC, Athens presenting performances by Kim Jones, Mieskuoro Huutajat (Screaming Men’s Choir), and Tania Bruguera, among others. She is the editor of Ellsworth Kelly, first issue of “Les Cahiers de la Fondation” (Fondation Louis Vuitton, Paris, 2014), realized in collaboration with the artist. She is the author of numerous essays in publications for, among others, MoMA, the Walker Art Center, Tate, Fondation François Pinault, Venice, and the Estorick Collection, London. She is the editor of _Interviews on Art_, the first collection of interviews with artists conducted by Robert Storr (Heni, London, 2017), and of its Italian edition _Interviste sull’arte_ (Il Saggiatore, Milan, 2019). As critic, she has contributed to _Flash Art International_, _ARTnews_, _Art in America_, the _Brooklyn Rail_, _Art Press_, and _Arte e Critica_.
